docs/plat/rpi5.rst, before:

Raspberry Pi 5
==============

The `Raspberry Pi 5`_ is a single-board computer that contains four
Arm Cortex-A76 cores.

This port is a minimal BL31 implementation capable of booting 64-bit EL2
payloads such as Linux and EDK2.

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: This port isn't secure. All of the memory used is DRAM,
which is available from both the Non-secure and Secure worlds. The SoC does
not seem to feature a secure memory controller of any kind, so portions of
DRAM can't be protected properly from the Non-secure world.

Build
------------------

To build this platform, run:

.. code:: shell

    CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-linux-gnu- make PLAT=rpi5 DEBUG=1

The firmware will be generated at ``build/rpi5/debug/bl31.bin``.

The following build options are supported:

- ``RPI3_DIRECT_LINUX_BOOT``: Enabled by default. Allows direct boot of the Linux
  kernel from the firmware.

- ``PRELOADED_BL33_BASE``: Used to specify the fixed address of a BL33 binary
  that has been preloaded by earlier boot stages (VPU). Useful for bundling
  BL31 and BL33 in the same ``armstub`` image (e.g. TF-A + EDK2).

- ``RPI3_PRELOADED_DTB_BASE``: This option allows to specify the fixed address of
  a DTB in memory. Can only be used if ``device_tree_address=`` is present in
  config.txt.

- ``RPI3_RUNTIME_UART``: Indicates whether TF-A should use the debug UART for
  runtime messages or not. ``-1`` (default) disables the option, any other value
  enables it.

Usage
------------------

Copy the firmware binary to the first FAT32 partition of a supported boot media
(SD, USB) and append ``armstub=bl31.bin`` to config.txt, or just rename the
file to ``armstub8-2712.bin``.

No other config options or files are required by the firmware alone, this will
depend on the payload you intend to run.

For Linux, you must also place an appropriate DTB and kernel in the boot
partition. This has been validated with a copy of Raspberry Pi OS.

The VPU will preload a BL33 AArch64 image named either ``kernel_2712.img`` or
``kernel8.img``, which can be overridden by adding a ``kernel=filename`` option
to config.txt.

Kernel and DTB load addresses are also chosen by the VPU and can be changed with
``kernel_address=`` and ``device_tree_address=`` in config.txt. If TF-A was built
with ``PRELOADED_BL33_BASE`` or ``RPI3_PRELOADED_DTB_BASE``, setting those config
options may be necessary.

By default, all boot stages print messages to the dedicated UART debug port.
Configuration is ``115200 8n1``.

Design
------------------

This port is largely based on the RPi 4 one.

The boot process is essentially the same, the only notable difference being that
all VPU blobs have been moved into EEPROM (former start4.elf & fixup4.dat). There's
also a custom BL31 TF-A armstub included for PSCI, which can be replaced with this
port.

.. _Raspberry Pi 5: https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-5/

Commit message:

rpi5: add OP-TEE support
OP-TEE support for RPI5 differs from the RPI3 one because on RPI5 we
have BL31 only and there is no way to load additional image into
memory. Only option is to attach OP-TEE image to the end of BL31 so
they can be loaded together by VPU.

So this patch assumes that OP-TEE image is located right after BL31 at
address 0x80000. But we can't boot OP-TEE at this address because VPU
will put kernel right behind OP-TEE image, at 0x200000. It is not
possible to change kernel load address with `kernel_addr` option in
config.txt anymore. This means that BL31 should move OP-TEE to empty
memory region. By default BL31 moves it at the end of 1GB block, but
this can be changed with BL31_BASE parameter.

BL31 will pass DTB address to the OP-TEE, so it will be able to
reserve memory for itself and provide correct entries in /firmware
section.

Documentation describes how to attach OP-TEE image to BL31.

Change-Id: I375ca19e7234053b9d6cee6b644ecc55492d85f2
Signed-off-by: Volodymyr Babchuk <volodymyr_babchuk@epam.com>

docs/plat/rpi5.rst, after:

Raspberry Pi 5
==============

The `Raspberry Pi 5`_ is a single-board computer that contains four
Arm Cortex-A76 cores.

This port is a minimal BL31 implementation capable of booting 64-bit EL2
payloads such as Linux and EDK2.

**IMPORTANT NOTE**: This port isn't secure. All of the memory used is DRAM,
which is available from both the Non-secure and Secure worlds. The SoC does
not seem to feature a secure memory controller of any kind, so portions of
DRAM can't be protected properly from the Non-secure world.

Build
------------------

To build this platform, run:

.. code:: shell

    CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-linux-gnu- make PLAT=rpi5 DEBUG=1

The firmware will be generated at ``build/rpi5/debug/bl31.bin``.

The following build options are supported:

- ``RPI3_DIRECT_LINUX_BOOT``: Enabled by default. Allows direct boot of the Linux
  kernel from the firmware.

- ``PRELOADED_BL33_BASE``: Used to specify the fixed address of a BL33 binary
  that has been preloaded by earlier boot stages (VPU). Useful for bundling
  BL31 and BL33 in the same ``armstub`` image (e.g. TF-A + EDK2).

- ``RPI3_PRELOADED_DTB_BASE``: This option allows to specify the fixed address of
  a DTB in memory. Can only be used if ``device_tree_address=`` is present in
  config.txt.

- ``RPI3_RUNTIME_UART``: Indicates whether TF-A should use the debug UART for
  runtime messages or not. ``-1`` (default) disables the option, any other value
  enables it.

Usage
------------------

Copy the firmware binary to the first FAT32 partition of a supported boot media
(SD, USB) and append ``armstub=bl31.bin`` to config.txt, or just rename the
file to ``armstub8-2712.bin``.

No other config options or files are required by the firmware alone, this will
depend on the payload you intend to run.

For Linux, you must also place an appropriate DTB and kernel in the boot
partition. This has been validated with a copy of Raspberry Pi OS.

The VPU will preload a BL33 AArch64 image named either ``kernel_2712.img`` or
``kernel8.img``, which can be overridden by adding a ``kernel=filename`` option
to config.txt.

Kernel and DTB load addresses are also chosen by the VPU and can be changed with
``kernel_address=`` and ``device_tree_address=`` in config.txt. If TF-A was built
with ``PRELOADED_BL33_BASE`` or ``RPI3_PRELOADED_DTB_BASE``, setting those config
options may be necessary.

By default, all boot stages print messages to the dedicated UART debug port.
Configuration is ``115200 8n1``.

OP-TEE
------

It is possible to use OP-TEE. But there is a caveat: OP-TEE image should be
load together with TF-A image, but RPI loader can load one file only. Solution
is to pack TF-A and OP-TEE into one image.

Build TF-A with ``SPD=opted`` option and then attach OP-TEE image to TF-A:

.. code:: shell

    cp build/rpi5/debug/bl31.bin bl31_bl32.bin
    dd if=tee-raw.bin of=bl31_bl32.bin bs=1024 seek=512

Then copy resulting ``bl31_bl32.bin`` to boot media as described in
the previous section.

Design
------------------

This port is largely based on the RPi 4 one.

The boot process is essentially the same, the only notable difference being that
all VPU blobs have been moved into EEPROM (former start4.elf & fixup4.dat). There's
also a custom BL31 TF-A armstub included for PSCI, which can be replaced with this
port.

.. _Raspberry Pi 5: https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-5/
