docs/plat/xilinx-zynqmp.rst, before:

Xilinx Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC
=============================

Trusted Firmware-A (TF-A) implements the EL3 firmware layer for Xilinx Zynq
UltraScale + MPSoC.
The platform only uses the runtime part of TF-A as ZynqMP already has a
BootROM (BL1) and FSBL (BL2).

BL31 is TF-A.
BL32 is an optional Secure Payload.
BL33 is the non-secure world software (U-Boot, Linux etc).

To build:

.. code:: bash

    make CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-none-elf- PLAT=zynqmp bl31

To build bl32 TSP you have to rebuild bl31 too:

.. code:: bash

    make CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-none-elf- PLAT=zynqmp SPD=tspd bl31 bl32

ZynqMP platform specific build options
--------------------------------------

-  ``ZYNQMP_ATF_MEM_BASE``: Specifies the base address of the bl31 binary.
-  ``ZYNQMP_ATF_MEM_SIZE``: Specifies the size of the memory region of the bl31 binary.
-  ``ZYNQMP_BL32_MEM_BASE``: Specifies the base address of the bl32 binary.
-  ``ZYNQMP_BL32_MEM_SIZE``: Specifies the size of the memory region of the bl32 binary.

-  ``ZYNQMP_CONSOLE``: Select the console driver. Options:

   -  ``cadence``, ``cadence0``: Cadence UART 0
   -  ``cadence1`` : Cadence UART 1

FSBL->TF-A Parameter Passing
----------------------------

The FSBL populates a data structure with image information for TF-A. TF-A uses
that data to hand off to the loaded images. The address of the handoff data
structure is passed in the ``PMU_GLOBAL.GLOBAL_GEN_STORAGE6`` register. The
register is free to be used by other software once TF-A has brought up
further firmware images.

Power Domain Tree
-----------------

The following power domain tree represents the power domain model used by TF-A
for ZynqMP:

::

                    +-+
                    |0|
                    +-+
         +-------+---+---+-------+
         |       |       |       |
         |       |       |       |
         v       v       v       v
        +-+     +-+     +-+     +-+
        |0|     |1|     |2|     |3|
        +-+     +-+     +-+     +-+

The 4 leaf power domains represent the individual A53 cores, while resources
common to the cluster are grouped in the power domain on the top.

Commit message:

plat:xilinx:zynqmp: Add JTAG DCC support
As per the new multi-console framework, updating the JTAG DCC support.
Removing the custom crash implementation and use
plat/common/aarch64/crash_console_helpers.S.

Signed-off-by: Venkatesh Yadav Abbarapu <venkatesh.abbarapu@xilinx.com>
Acked-by: Michal Simek <michal.simek@xilinx.com>
Change-Id: I62cfbb57ae7e454fbc91d1c54aafa6e99f9a35c8

docs/plat/xilinx-zynqmp.rst, after:

Xilinx Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC
=============================

Trusted Firmware-A (TF-A) implements the EL3 firmware layer for Xilinx Zynq
UltraScale + MPSoC.
The platform only uses the runtime part of TF-A as ZynqMP already has a
BootROM (BL1) and FSBL (BL2).

BL31 is TF-A.
BL32 is an optional Secure Payload.
BL33 is the non-secure world software (U-Boot, Linux etc).

To build:

.. code:: bash

    make CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-none-elf- PLAT=zynqmp bl31

To build bl32 TSP you have to rebuild bl31 too:

.. code:: bash

    make CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-none-elf- PLAT=zynqmp SPD=tspd bl31 bl32

To build TF-A for JTAG DCC console:

.. code:: bash

    make CROSS_COMPILE=aarch64-none-elf- PLAT=zynqmp RESET_TO_BL31=1 bl31 ZYNQMP_CONSOLE=dcc

ZynqMP platform specific build options
--------------------------------------

-  ``ZYNQMP_ATF_MEM_BASE``: Specifies the base address of the bl31 binary.
-  ``ZYNQMP_ATF_MEM_SIZE``: Specifies the size of the memory region of the bl31 binary.
-  ``ZYNQMP_BL32_MEM_BASE``: Specifies the base address of the bl32 binary.
-  ``ZYNQMP_BL32_MEM_SIZE``: Specifies the size of the memory region of the bl32 binary.

-  ``ZYNQMP_CONSOLE``: Select the console driver. Options:

   -  ``cadence``, ``cadence0``: Cadence UART 0
   -  ``cadence1`` : Cadence UART 1

FSBL->TF-A Parameter Passing
----------------------------

The FSBL populates a data structure with image information for TF-A. TF-A uses
that data to hand off to the loaded images. The address of the handoff data
structure is passed in the ``PMU_GLOBAL.GLOBAL_GEN_STORAGE6`` register. The
register is free to be used by other software once TF-A has brought up
further firmware images.

Power Domain Tree
-----------------

The following power domain tree represents the power domain model used by TF-A
for ZynqMP:

::

                    +-+
                    |0|
                    +-+
         +-------+---+---+-------+
         |       |       |       |
         |       |       |       |
         v       v       v       v
        +-+     +-+     +-+     +-+
        |0|     |1|     |2|     |3|
        +-+     +-+     +-+     +-+

The 4 leaf power domains represent the individual A53 cores, while resources
common to the cluster are grouped in the power domain on the top.
